自古以来，能源发现和获取就是人类进步和冲突的主要根源。石油作为一种能量密度大、开采成本相对较低的能源，更是各个国家争夺的对象。而由于石油在世界范围内分布极为不均，也使它成为影响地缘政治的重要因素。本书的作者Daniel Yergin是能源问题的专家，他在2011年出版的《The Price》是有关石油历史的扛鼎之作。Daniel Yergin也因此获得了普利策奖。

作者从大约十年前美国页岩油气开发的革命入手，因为北美大陆上新油田的发现和开采技术的突破，页岩开采的成本大幅降低，世界石油版图已经进入美国、俄罗斯和中东的三巨头时代。对外国石油依赖的减少，无形中提高了美国在其他问题上的选择余地和话语权。俄罗斯、欧洲、中东和中国这几个产油和用油的重要地区在新版图形成中有着不同的历史沿革和策略选择。读者可以了解到环保组织反对Keystone石油管道的来龙去脉；俄罗斯与乌克兰复杂的领土边界争端和能源供给的关系，欧洲与美国在俄罗斯输油管线上的冲突和角力，OPEC组织与非OPEC组织中能源危机发生时的竞争与合作，科威特和巴林这样的小国在中东地缘政治中的作用，以及中国一带一路计划与国家经济安全的深刻联系。如果读者对国际时事政治耳熟能详，也许会觉得这本书没有阐述什么新颖深刻的观点；但如果对此算不上精通，这本书从石油的角度，将许多独立的事件连接起来，能够帮助读者了解这几十年间与石油有关的技术经济的发展史，以及国家之间在能源和国家安全问题上博弈的全貌。

可再生能源的使用是能源版图中新的前景，风能、太阳能已经成为能源供给中的重要部分，但是由于能量密度较低，储存运输的成本太高，离开政府补贴，可再生能源在价格上还不能被广泛接受。作者从可再生能源谈到电动车，又谈到人工智能，我觉得有画蛇添足之嫌。



Throughout the human history, energy discovery and access has been a major source of human progress and conflict. Oil, because of its high energy density and relatively low cost of extraction, has been the object of competition among various countries. And the extremely uneven distribution of oil around the world has also made it an important factor influencing geopolitics. Daniel Yergin is global energy expert. His 2011 book, "The Price", hailed as “the best history of oil ever written”, won him a Pulitzer Prize for his work. 

The author begins the book with the "shale revolution" happened in the United States about a decade ago. because of the discovery of new oil fields on the North American continent and breakthroughs in technology that have dramatically reduced the cost of shale extraction, The United States has surpassed Russia and Saudi Arabia and become the number one producer of oil in the world. The reduced dependence on foreign oil has invariably increased the U.S.'s options and power on the global issues. Other key oil-producing regions of Russia, the Middle East and China have different histories and strategic choices in the formation of the new map. Readers can learn about the ins and outs of environmental groups' opposition to the Keystone oil pipeline; Russia's complex territorial border dispute with Ukraine and the relationship between energy supply; Europe's conflict with the United States over the Russian pipeline; the competition and cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC organizations when energy crises occur; the role of small countries like Kuwait and Bahrain in the geopolitics of the Middle East; and and the profound connection between China's Belt and Road Initiative and national economic security. If the reader is very familiar with international politics, he or she may find that this book does not present any new and profound ideas; otherwise, this book connects many separate events from the perspective of oil to help the reader understand the history of oil-related technological and economic developments over the decades, as well as the geopolitical landscape of countries on energy and national security issues.

The use of renewable energy sources is a new prospect in the energy landscape. Wind and solar energy have become an important part of the energy supply, but because of the low energy density and the high cost of storage and transportation, without government subsidies, renewable energy is not yet widely accepted because of the high price. The author then shifts his topics from electric vehicles to artificial intelligence, which I think it loses focus and is unnecessary.
